Welcome to the class I'm Andrew and I'm excited to show you everything that no JSA can do.
When I first started teaching note on udemy about five years ago no it was a super popular choice and
that has not changed over the last five years.
A ton of great new features have been added to node.
It's only gotten more popular and more mature as a tool being used by professional developers everywhere.
Now in this course we're going to cover everything you need to become a professional no developer.
But in this video specifically there are three important things I want to talk about.
First up we're going to talk about the curriculum.
We'll talk about how we're going to go from where we are now to where we want to be which is a professional
No j s developer.
The second thing we're going to talk about is how you can get the most out of the class.
And finally we'll talk about how you can get help if you get stuck or if you just have a question about
something covered in the course.
So let's go ahead and jump right in and talk about the course curriculum
the curriculum for this class is broken into four major parts and in each part you end up building a
brand new application by the end of the class you'll have built a Notes app that's part one a weather
app for part 2 a task manager app for part 3.
And finally we'll be wrapping up the course with a chat application for Part 4.
Now with every new feature you learn you're actually going to integrate it into an application.
So the goal is not just to learn features in isolation.
The goal is to figure out how to combine these features together to build useful and interesting apps.
My goal for you is that by the end of the class you can build useful and interesting apps on your own.
At the end of the class I'll actually offer up some suggestions of what you could build based off of
what you learned.
Now the first app we're going to build together is the notes application.
This is going to allow us to explore the very fundamentals of note so you'll learn how to create a note
application.
You'll learn how to load in the various features that node provides and you'll learn how to run your
apps.
Along the way we'll explore some interesting things that node can do such as reading and writing from
the file system.
Now once we have the basics down we're going to move on to the weather application which is a web app
so the user will interact with that app via the browser.
This application is going to require you to learn about creating your own no J.S. servers.
Building your own API and communicating with third party services such as a service that allows you
to fetch real time weather data for a given location.
The app after that the task manager app comes with all of the features you would expect from an application.
This includes authentication with an email and password.
It includes real database storage and Mongo D.B..
We're also going to cover useful features like file upload emails sending and more now of the last application
you'll be building is a real time chat app.
So you're going to learn how to use socket ie.
Oh and web sockets to create real time applications for you and your users.
Now that you know what you're getting yourself into.
What I want to do is offer up a couple of suggestions as to how you can get the most out of the class
this course was designed to be completely interactive so to get the most value out of the class you
need to interact with it.
Everything I do on my machine is something that you should be doing on your machine as well.
So when we explore a new feature I'll be adding some code to one of our projects explaining what it
does and then running it.
You shouldn't be doing the same on your machine even though you're just watching what I'm doing and
then doing it yourself.
This is a bit of monkey see monkey do where you're just following along but it's really important in
order to understand what a new feature does.
Now when it comes to building up your problem solving abilities the monkey see monkey do approach doesn't
work.
That's why in this class I've included over 100 unique challenges requiring you to solve problems on
your own using what's been covered in the course.
So I'll set up the problem at telling you what I'd like you to do.
I'll give you some time to go off and do it then together we'll work through the solution.
It's really important that you do both of these follow along with the lessons and give the challenges
an honest try that's going to make sure that when you're done the class you actually have these skills
and experience to go off and build applications on your own.
All right let's go ahead and talk about how you can get help should you need it.
We're about to spend a lot of time together learning something new and it's likely that at some point
in the class you're going to need a little help.
Maybe you're running the program.
We've been creating together and you're getting different results.
Or maybe you try to run the program and it completely crashes printing some sort of cryptic error message
regardless of what's going wrong.
The course Q and A is your place to ask questions and get help.
All that we ask is you provide as much information about your problem so we can help get you unstuck
and back on track quickly.
This includes a zip of your project code screenshots of errors or results that you weren't expecting
and a description of what exactly you were doing when the problem occurred.
Now throughout the class I'll also be teaching you how to debug your node J.S. applications and read
those error messages.
But the course Q and A is always there should you need it.
All right.
That is it for this video.
Let's go ahead and continue on with the class.